---
layout: default
title: "Command: stimmtausch"
---


## stimmtausch

Run Stimmtausch.

### Synopsis

Run Stimmtausch.
	
Stimmtausch is a client for connecting to MU* servers. You can specify these in
your config file, along with information used to log into them. You can run the
"init" sub-command to generate a config file for you.

You may specify which worlds or servers you would like to connect to on the
command line separated by spaces. For each, Stimmtausch will first look for the
world named that in the config file, then the server named that in the config
file if no world is found. Finally, it will try to connect to that address
directly, if you specify it as "<host>:<port>".

For example, say you have a server named "furrymuck" and a world named "fm_fox".
You could connect to the world (which would be, say, the character Foxface on
FurryMUCK) with:

    stimmtausch fm_fox
	
Or you could connect to FurryMUCK with:

    stimmtausch furrymuck
	
Finally, if you want to connect to another server entirely, you can do so with:

    stimmtausch mu.example.org:8889
	
You can combine these at will, of course. if you have the world "spr_rudder",
you could connect to bot worlds, plus a new server, with:

    stimmtausch fm_fox spr_rudder mu.example.org:8889
	
For more help, see https://stimmtausch.com

```
stimmtausch [flags] [world-or-server...]
```

### Options

```
  -h, --help               help for stimmtausch
      --log-level string   level of detail to show in logs (can be TRACE, DEBUG, INFO, WARNING, ERROR, CRITICAL)
```

### SEE ALSO

* [stimmtausch headless](/cmd/stimmtausch_headless)	 - Run Stimmtausch in headless mode (advanced).
* [stimmtausch strip-ansi](/cmd/stimmtausch_strip-ansi)	 - Strip ANSI color codes from a file.

###### Auto generated by spf13/cobra on 7-May-2020
