README.md, before:

# Stimmtausch

Stimmtausch (`st`) is a curses-based MUCK client written in Go.

## Reasoning

TinyFugue (`tf`) has been the gold-standard terminal MU\* client for decades. However, it has largely been abandoned (thankfully in a very stable state!). Rather than attempt to take over the project and restart it, it was decided that a new client would be the best path forward: a modern client using modern tooling and design.

## The name

*Stimmtausch* is a compositional technique that shows up in fugue. Often called "voice exchange", it refers to the changing of motifs between the voices in a fugue which often occurs before the recapitulation. The goal was to have a name that expressed something detailed and well-thought-out. "SmallSonata" was also considered, but discarded as too twee :)

## Inspiration

TinyFugue, of course, was a big inspiration for this project, but [`mm`](https://github.com/onlyhavecans/mm) played a role as well, as a MUCK client written in Go using some interesting ideas. Many portions of `mm` are found in Stimmtausch, though, rather than use it as a library, it was modified to fit the design goals of the project.

## Libraries

* gocui
* cobra
* viper
* goconvey

## Contributors

* Madison Scott-Clary (@makyo; Maddy on FurryMUCK and Tapestries).

Commit message:

Redo config
Viper wasn't cutting it, and snuffler was a fun project, so I'm using that. Besides, the more I deal with it, the better I think it is to be explicit about what one expects in the configuration values

README.md, after:

[![GoDoc reference](https://godoc.org/github.com/makyo/st?status.svg)](https://godoc.org/github.com/makyo/st)
[![Support me on Patreon](https://img.shields.io/badge/patreon-support-%23222222.svg)](https://patreon.com/makyo)
[![Buy me a Coffee](https://img.shields.io/badge/patreon-support-%23222222.svg)](https://ko-fi.com/drabmakyo)
[![Support me on LiberaPay](https://img.shields.io/badge/liberapay-support-%23222222.svg)](https://liberapay.com/makyo)

# Stimmtausch

Stimmtausch (`st`) is a curses-based MUCK client written in Go.

## Reasoning

TinyFugue (`tf`) has been the gold-standard terminal MU\* client for decades. However, it has largely been abandoned (thankfully in a very stable state!). Rather than attempt to take over the project and restart it, it was decided that a new client would be the best path forward: a modern client using modern tooling and design.

## The name

*Stimmtausch* is a compositional technique that shows up in fugue. Often called "voice exchange", it refers to the changing of motifs between the voices in a fugue which often occurs before the recapitulation. The goal was to have a name that expressed something detailed and well-thought-out. "SmallSonata" was also considered, but discarded as too twee :)

## Inspiration

TinyFugue, of course, was a big inspiration for this project, but [`mm`](https://github.com/onlyhavecans/mm) played a role as well, as a MUCK client written in Go using some interesting ideas. Many portions of `mm` are found in Stimmtausch, though, rather than use it as a library, it was modified to fit the design goals of the project.

## More information

You can find out more on [stimmtausch.com](https://stimmtausch.com).

## Contributors

* Madison Scott-Clary (@makyo; Maddy on FurryMUCK and Tapestries).
